# Migrating from WoltLab Suite 5.5 - PHP

## Minimum requirements

The minimum requirements have been increased to the following:

- **PHP:** 8.1.2 (64 bit only)
- **MySQL:** 8.0.29
- **MariaDB:** 10.5.12

It is recommended to make use of the newly introduced features whereever possible.
Please refer to the PHP documentation for details.

## Inheritance

Parameter, return, and property types have been added to methods of various classes/interfaces.
This might cause errors during inheritance, because the types are not compatible with the newly added types in the parent class.

Return types may already be added in package versions for older WoltLab Suite branches to be forward compatible, because return types are covariant.

## Package System

### Rejection of “pl” versions

Woltlab Suite 6.0 no longer accepts package versions with the “pl” suffix as valid.

### Removal of API compatibility

WoltLab Suite 6.0 removes support for the deprecated API compatibility functionality.
Any packages with a `<compatibility>` tag in their package.xml are assumed to not have been updated for WoltLab Suite 6.0 and will be rejected during installation.
Furthermore any packages without an explicit requirement for `com.woltlab.wcf` in at least version `5.4.22` are also assumed to not have been updated for WoltLab Suite 6.0 and will also be rejected.
The latter check is intended to reject old and most likely incompatible packages where the author forgot to add either an `<excludedpackage>` or a `<compatibility>` tag before releasing it.

### Package Installation Plugins

#### Database

The `$name` parameter of `DatabaseTableIndex::create()` is no longer optional.
Relying on the auto-generated index name is strongly discouraged, because of unfixable inconsistent behavior between the SQL PIP and the PHP DDL API.
See [WoltLab/WCF#4505](https://github.com/WoltLab/WCF/issues/4505) for further background information.

The autogenerated name can still be requested by passing an empty string as the `$name`.
This should only be done for backwards compatibility purposes and to migrate an index with an autogenerated name to an index with an explicit name.
An example script can be found in [WoltLab/com.woltlab.wcf.conversation@a33677ca051f](https://github.com/WoltLab/com.woltlab.wcf.conversation/commit/a33677ca051f76e1ddda1de7f8dc62a5484de16e).

## Indicating parameters that hold sensitive information

PHP 8.2 adds native support for redacting parameters holding sensitive information in stack traces.
Parameters with the `#[\SensitiveParameter]` attribute will show a placeholder value within the stack trace and the error log.

WoltLab Suite’s exception handler contains logic to manually apply the sanitization for PHP versions before 8.2.

It is strongly recommended to add this attribute to all parameters holding sensitive information.
Examples for sensitive parameters include passwords/passphrases, access tokens, plaintext values to be encrypted, or private keys.

As attributes are fully backwards and forwards compatible it is possible to apply the attribute to packages targeting older WoltLab Suite or PHP versions without causing errors.

Example:

```php
function checkPassword(
    #[\SensitiveParameter]
    $password,
): bool {
    // …
}
```

See the [PHP RFC: Redacting parameters in back traces](https://wiki.php.net/rfc/redact_parameters_in_back_traces) for more details.
